// Breaking Changes

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/breaking-changes.asciidoc
include::static/breaking-changes.asciidoc[]

// Upgrading Logstash

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/upgrading.asciidoc
include::static/upgrading.asciidoc[]

// Configuring Logstash

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/configuration.asciidoc
include::static/configuration.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/reloading-config.asciidoc
include::static/reloading-config.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/managing-multiline-events.asciidoc
include::static/managing-multiline-events.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/glob-support.asciidoc
include::static/glob-support.asciidoc[]

// Working with Logstash Modules

include::static/modules.asciidoc[]

include::static/arcsight-module.asciidoc[]

include::static/netflow-module.asciidoc[]

// Working with Filebeat Modules

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/master/docs/static/filebeat-modules.asciidoc
include::static/filebeat-modules.asciidoc[]

// Data resiliency

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/master/docs/static/resiliency.asciidoc
include::static/resiliency.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/master/docs/static/persistent-queues.asciidoc
include::static/persistent-queues.asciidoc[]

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/master/docs/static/dead-letter-queues.asciidoc
include::static/dead-letter-queues.asciidoc[]

// Transforming Data

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/transforming-data.asciidoc
include::static/transforming-data.asciidoc[]

// Deploying & Scaling

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/deploying.asciidoc
include::static/deploying.asciidoc[]

// Troubleshooting performance

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/performance-checklist.asciidoc
include::static/performance-checklist.asciidoc[]

// Monitoring overview

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/master/docs/static/monitoring.asciidoc
include::static/monitoring.asciidoc[]

// Monitoring APIs

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/monitoring-apis.asciidoc
include::static/monitoring-apis.asciidoc[]

// Working with Plugins

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/plugin-manager.asciidoc
include::static/plugin-manager.asciidoc[]

// These files do their own pass blocks

include::{plugins-repo-dir}/plugins/inputs.asciidoc[]
include::{plugins-repo-dir}/plugins/outputs.asciidoc[]
include::{plugins-repo-dir}/plugins/filters.asciidoc[]
include::{plugins-repo-dir}/plugins/codecs.asciidoc[]

:edit_url:

// Contributing to Logstash

include::static/contributing-to-logstash.asciidoc[]

include::static/input.asciidoc[]
include::static/codec.asciidoc[]
include::static/filter.asciidoc[]
include::static/output.asciidoc[]

// Contributing a Patch to a Logstash Plugin

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/contributing-patch.asciidoc
include::static/contributing-patch.asciidoc[]

// Logstash Community Maintainer Guide

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/maintainer-guide.asciidoc
include::static/maintainer-guide.asciidoc[]

// A space is necessary here ^^^


// Submitting a Plugin

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/submitting-a-plugin.asciidoc
include::static/submitting-a-plugin.asciidoc[]


// Glossary of Terms

:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.x/docs/static/glossary.asciidoc
include::static/glossary.asciidoc[]

// Release notes
:edit_url: https://github.com/elastic/logstash/edit/5.5/docs/static/releasenotes.asciidoc
include::static/releasenotes.asciidoc[]

